standardized tests the fastest way to
terrify any child with five letters
outside of just whispering the word it's
currently testing season all over the
country and with that comes the usual
flood of anxiety and school produced
videos designed to get kids in the mood
what does the test say job number two
pencils out your number two pencils out
get your number two pencils out what the
tests say you - number two pencils out
get your number two pencils out the
standardized tests look like amazing fun
I wish I could take one right now bring
me a pencil
I'm number two please but it gets better
because one Elementary School in Texas
even held a test themed pep rally
featuring a monkey mascot look let's all
agree there is no scenario in which the
words here comes the monkey can fail to
pump you up
just imagine what now all it was your
surgeon and I said to you I'm about to
put you under there's about a 20% chance
of survival and I have four important
words for you
pointings those those videos and monkey
mascots would have you think that
testing is amazing which is why this
spate of recent news stories has been so
surprising in the lower Hudson Valley
many districts reported that more than
25% of their students opted out more
than 1,700 elementary middle and high
school students opted out of taking the
PARCC test those five kids houses they
took the test
yeah like almost the entire auditorium
was filled with kids that didn't take it
not a single junior showed up to take
the Common Core smarter balanced test
this week Wow the entire class boycotted
the test the only other thing an entire
class of juniors has ever managed to
agree on is that The Scarlet Letter
could be told much simpler with emojis
we got it read lady finger finger devil
baby we've all read the book is a good
story that American students are sick of
tests between benchmarks diagnostic
spree and mock tests they take a lot of
them students are taking between 10 and
20 standardized tests depending on the
grade a total average of 113 different
ones by graduation 113 is a lot of tests
it's approaching the amount that you'd
ask your doctor for the morning after
you woke up from a one-night stand with
Colin Farrell just just give me all of
them twice and this amount of testing
can take a toll teachers have reported
kids throwing up kids crying especially
the younger ones and it's the pressure
that's true in fact this happens so much
that official instructions for test
administrators specify what to do if a
student vomits on his or her test
booklet and something is wrong with our
system when we just assume a certain
number of kids will vomit tests are
supposed to be assessment of skills not
a rap battle on 8 Mile Road
Oh mmm why did your mom make you
spaghetti
she knew tonight was rapid battle nights
so how did we get here what the
explosion of testing can be traced back
to the 90s when you probably remember
stories like these about the state of
public education
when 40 Nations recently took the
International math and science test
American students scored near the bottom
and that must have hurt especially
because you knew the French children
weren't even trying go on play with your
silly numbers they tell you nothing of
the true nature of the solar a week
before you in response to statistics
like that
President George W Bush on just his
third day in office announced his No
Child Left Behind program it passed
Congress with bipartisan support because
of course it did voting against No Child
Left Behind is like voting against no
puppy left unsnag 'old what what monster
would do that
his name is patches and he needs love
the program was designed to be
data-driven and involved testing
children every single year in order to
identify and fix failing schools in the
counter billi system must have a
consequence otherwise it's not much of
an accountability system it's hard to
argue with any of that
unfortunately accountability is one of
those concepts that everybody's in favor
of but nobody knows how to make work
like synergy or maxi dresses no matter
who wears them they look like a poncho
to waterfall you look like the ghost of
Gwyneth Paltrow future I only haunt
Branch goo
No Child Left Behind increase the number
of federally mandated tests from 6 to 17
and the fixation on testing was
something which our current president
seemed to be against as he ran for
office don't tell us that the only way
to teach a child is to spend too much of
a year preparing him to fill out a few
bubbles in a standardized test we know
that's not true
Wow that man knew how to pander to
teachers and yet you know what else they
should be pool tables and the teachers
lounge and every year you should be able
to slap one parents vote for me I'm out
of here
what's this breakthrough took office he
didn't get rid of tests instead he added
his own education initiatives like race
to the top which encourage states to
adopt the common core which featured a
logo of snails sixty-nining and again
the intentions here were good because we
do have underperforming schools and
there are major economic and racial
disparities in the quality of education
children receive and anything that can
help us narrow those gaps is obviously a
good thing the problem has been the
implementation for instance many states
now tie teacher pay to performance using
one particular approach
it's called value-added analysis rating
teachers based on student test scores
for instance if a student who ranked in
the 60th percentile test higher at the
end of the year
the teacher gets a better rating if the
student Falls the teachers rating Falls
okay well that explains why many
teachers class and decorations that used
to read believe in yourself now say
don't come me on this
and what well the idea of trying teacher
pay to student improvement sounds great
in theory here's how it can work in
practice I have four students who's
predicted scores were literally
impossible one of my sixth-grade
students had a predicted score of 286
point three four however the highest a
sixth grade student can earn is 283 the
student did earn a 283 incidentally
despite the fact she earned a perfect
score
she counted negatively towards my
evaluation because she was three points
below her predicted score that is
ridiculous the only way she could have
hit her predicted score was if she
answered everything right roped a few
extra questions of her own got those
right and then stapled them to the test
that teacher lives in Florida which uses
this formula to assess teachers a
formula which looks like the kind of
thing that aliens carve into an
anti-semites cornfield and many of these
formulas on which teachers careers
depend were partly inspired by research
and this is true that modeled the
reproductive trends of livestock
basically we judge the nuance of what
happens in the complicated world of a
child's mind the same way that we judge
this look I don't know what we did wrong
but your child is going to either pass
algebra or birth a healthy calf I don't
know flip a coin with the stakes this
high the tests had better be good but
there is ample reason to suspect that
that is not the case just look at the
Florida Comprehensive Assessment test or
FCAT a Florida school board member was
concerned and a little suspicious when
he learned that only 39% of his state's
tenth graders had performed at or above
grade level in reading so we had an idea
I asked the district at that point to
give me the closest thing they could
legally to the FCAT reading and math
test and I took it that test labeled me
as a poor reader and I have a couple of
master's degrees and I've been reelected
four times and I teach 39 graduate
courses at six universities in this
country okay okay okay
we get it the test sucks anything else
you want to brag about there I also know
how to play mary had a little lamb on
the recorder and guess who could do 16
non-consecutive push-ups King guy look
he does have a point he does have a
point if a test fails to reflect ability
there are human consequences because one
shy Florida eighth grader who had a
near-perfect score in her advanced
language arts class was asked to leave
it last year due to her inexplicably low
scores on the FCAT and last fall she
told a school board meeting exactly how
that felt every year I do good in school
but I get locusts but I get low test
scores on the up cap and it feels like
it's much of the stomach this is unfair
and I don't want to lose my opportunity
to take my classes or get because what
test that is just awful I take back
everything I said about wanting to take
a standardized test in fact you know
what
bring out the monkey with you what is
wrong with you you made that little girl
cry think about what you've done no no
don't you don't you don't sit off you
can't think about what you've done
Oh shame on you
this one you have to ask yourself if
standardized tests are bad for teachers
and bad for kids who exactly are they
good for well it turns out they're
operated by companies like all these and
let's just focus on the largest one
Pearson as of 2012 they had nearly 40%
of the testing market almost triple
their nearest competitor and if you've
never heard of them then congratulations
but just mention their name to any
parent or teacher in a state they
operate in and you see what happens
because Pearson are the educational
equivalent of Time Warner Cable either
you've never had an interaction with
them and don't care or they have ruined
your life
Pearson have a shocking amount of
influence over America's schools so much
so that at this point a hypothetical
girl could take Pearson tests from
kindergarten through at least eighth
grade but a test by the way that she
studied for using Pierce and curriculum
and textbooks taught to her by teachers
who were certified by their own Pearson
test if at some point she was tested for
a learning disability like ADHD that's
also a Pearson test and if she
eventually got sick of Pearson and
dropped out well she'd have to take the
GED which is now guess what also a
Pearson test in fact the only test they
have no hand in is the HPV test you
might take in college I can only assume
that they'll get on that as soon as they
see this show Pearson has
enjoyed spectacular growth and profits
and yet their track record is littered
with complaints concerning technical
glitches slow grading and even the
contents of their tests take take what
happened in New York just a few years
ago almost 30 different test questions
have now been declared invalid because
they're confusing or have outright
errors they'd already pulled six
questions from an English exam related
to a bizarre passage about a talking
pineapple talking pineapple well at the
risk of sounding like a DreamWorks
executive talking to a CGI animator tell
me more about this talking pineapple
students had to answer questions about
the story which they say goes like this
a pineapple challenges a hair to erase
other animals figure the fruit has a
trick up its sleeve but the hair wins
and the animals eat the pineapple it
ends with the moral pineapples don't
have sleeves I was really confused
because I expected a lot more from them
that article about the pineapple in the
hair was stupid and absurd yeah she's
not wrong about that because we looked
up that test section and we couldn't
work out all the answers that pineapple
item doesn't remotely work as a test
question it barely works as a doors
lyric but it's it's not just Pearson's
questions that are a problem it's how
they check the answers the company
posted this ad to Craigslist it's to
find people to grade the exams
Craigslist they look for scorers on
Craigslist
Pearson chooses tests graders the same
way that you'd look for a mattress full
of bedbugs or a no-strings-attached hand
job and to be clear here just to be
clear this is not just a Pearson problem
across the whole testing industry you
can find former graders who will tell
you horror stories we looked at an essay
every two minutes a short answer every
five seconds every ten seconds we don't
understand your kids we don't understand
anyone's kids that is not an acceptable
answer from a person who may be
responsible for the future of your child
it's barely acceptable from the
manufacturers of American Girl dolls we
make dolls for a hundred bucks that kids
can't play with in case they get them
dirty we don't understand your kids we
don't understand anyone's kids as
another score points out sometimes great
are given out not based on merit but on
quota I was told when I was beginning a
project that last year you know there
were a certain amount of to a certain
amount of three is a certain amount of
force we expect that to be similar this
year if that's not similar they will
tell you we're scoring too many threes
we're scoring too many fours they'll say
you have to learn to see more papers as
a three you have to learn to see more
papers as a four that makes no sense if
the content of what you're looking at
has not changed that's not telling a
baseball umpire hey we've got a problem
with
averages you need to see more home runs
and strikeouts and more strikeouts as
doubles do it now
and I would love to show you more
questions from these tests but
unfortunately that's not only difficult
it's often illegal because both states
and companies have fought to keep test
questions secret for having teachers and
students signed statements like I will
not use or discuss the content of secure
test materials and while they'll say
that this is to protect against cheating
it does seem odd that even if you see
something wrong on a test you can't tell
anyone
standardized tests basically enforce the
rule that all subway riders
instinctively obey if you see something
keep it the to yourself we've all
seen someone vomit in a purse before
leave it
focus ahead and leave it bury it look
look we've had more than a decade of
standardized testing now and maybe it's
time to put the test to the test
the original goal was to narrow the
achievement gap and boost our scores
relative to the rest of the world
well a 2013 study found no support for
the idea that no child left behind an
hour at the achievement gap and our
scores on the international tests have
not only failed to rise they're slightly
down and I do not want to hear what that
French kid thinks of those results cause
this time and all this money and your
highs to the top has been how you say a
meandering jog on a treadmill
for a middle of what both presidents
asked for when selling their reforms
higher standards are the right goal
accountability is the right goal an
accountability system must have a
consequence otherwise it's not much of
an accountability system right so let's
look at that because as far as I can see
this is a system which has enriched
multiple companies and that pays and
fires teachers with a cattle birthing
formula confuses children with talking
pineapples and as the same kind of rules
regarding transparency that Brad Pitt
had for Fight Club so so for Pearson the
other companies and all the lawmakers
who have supported this system the true
test is going to be either convincing
everyone it works or accepting it
doesn't work and fixing it because at
the risk of sounding like a standardized
test score your numbers are not good and
if it seems unfair to have your fate
riding on a complicated metric that
fails to take institutional factors into
account and might not even tell the
whole story well you're not wrong about
that but you do not get to complain
about it and if all this pressure to
increase your numbers is making you feel
nauseous like you might vomit at any
second
and don't worry I've got four words for
you that'll make you feel better
here comes